Wi-Fi Troubleshooting [HC-1454] (#377)
arduino/help-center-content: content/Arduino Cloud/General Cloud/Wi-Fi-troubleshooting.md

---
title: "Wi-Fi troubleshooting"
---

This guide is intended to help you troubleshoot common Wi-Fi connectivity issues with your devices. Follow the steps below to identify and resolve potential issues.

## 1. Frequency Bands: 2.4 GHz vs 5 GHz

Learn more about it [here](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/14144656051740-Supported-Wi-Fi-bands)

## 2. Avoid common network names

Avoid using generic names like "default" or "home" to prevent interference and confusion with neighboring networks.

> ## 3. Reset Network Credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Reset network credentials for your Thing
```
To emphasize that changes should be made on the Thing itself, not on the Wi-Fi network (as shown in section 2).

### Verifying or changing network credentials in Arduino Cloud

If the Wi-Fi connection is not working, you might need to reset the [network credentials](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/360016495559-Add-and-connect-a-device-to-Arduino-Cloud#:~:text=Click%20the%20Network,adding%20the%20device) for your Thing in Arduino Cloud.

> 1. Navigate to your [Thing](https://app.arduino.cc/things) that is experiencing Wi-Fi issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [Thing](https://app.arduino.cc/things) that is experiencing Wi-Fi issues.
```

1. Under **Network**, click the button labeled "Change"

1. Re-enter your Wi-Fi credentials with your Wi-Fi Name (SSID) and Password (Encryption Key). Ensure there are no typos and the credentials match those set on your router.

1. Open the sketch and click the **Upload** button to properly apply the new network settings to your device.

### Veryfing or changing the credentials defined in the sketch

> To verify or change the network credentials directly defined in a sketch, whether the sketch was created in Arduino Cloud or or IDE, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify or change the network credentials directly defined in a sketch, whether the sketch was created in Arduino Cloud or IDE, follow these steps:
```

1. Locate the section in your Arduino sketch where the network credentials are defined. This is typically found in the main sketch file or inside an `arduino_secrets.h` file.

1. Check the variables for SSID and password to ensure they match your network credentials. You may also need to modify key index if you're using a WEP encrypted network.

1. After making any necessary changes, save the sketch.

1. Upload the modified sketch by clicking the Upload button in the Arduino IDE or Cloud Editor.

Additionally, you can check the console (serial) output for error messages. This can provide insight into what might be going wrong during the connection process.

> ## 4. Check your Power Supply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Check your power supply
```
Lowercase to be consistent with the other ## headers

> Wi-Fi connectivity problems are often caused by insufficient power. Since Wi-Fi usage demands more power than normal operations, ensure your device is adequately powered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wi-Fi connectivity problems are often caused by insufficient power. Since Wi-Fi usage demands more power than other operations, ensure your device is adequately powered by:
```

> - USB hubs might not supply sufficient power, especially if multiple devices are connected. Connect your device directly to a USB port on your computer or a dedicated power source.
> 
> - Ensure you are using a high-quality USB cable capable of delivering consistent power.
> 
> - Verify that your power supply meets the necessary input voltage for your device. You can find hardware information for your device [here](https://docs.arduino.cc/hardware/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Connecting your device directly to a USB port on your computer or a dedicated power source. USB hubs might not supply sufficient power, especially if multiple devices are connected.

- Ensuring you are using a high-quality USB cable capable of delivering consistent power.

- Verifying that your power supply meets the necessary input voltage for your device. You can find hardware information for your device [here](https://docs.arduino.cc/hardware/).
```

---
title: "Wi-Fi troubleshooting"
---

This guide is intended to help you troubleshoot common Wi-Fi connectivity issues with your devices. Follow the steps below to identify and resolve potential issues.

## 1. Frequency Bands: 2.4 GHz vs 5 GHz

### Use the 2.4 GHz Band for IoT Devices

> Arduino boards and most IoT devices work better on the 2.4 GHz band. The 2.4 GHz band offers better range and signal strength through obstacles compared to 5 GHz.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Arduino boards and most IoT devices can only be used with 2.4 GHz band networks. The 2.4 GHz band offers better range and signal strength through obstacles compared to 5 GHz.
```

The previous "work better" statement implies that they also work with 5 GHz networks, only not as well. That is false. It is essential to clearly communicate that the 2.4 GHz band _must_ be used.

1. A properties page will open. Here you can find details about the wireless network, including the network band (GHz).

**macOS:**

1. Click on the Apple menu in the top-left corner of your screen and select **System Preferences**.

1. In the System Preferences window, click on the **Network** icon.

1. Select the Wi-Fi connection from the list on the left-hand side. Click on the **Advanced** button in the bottom-right corner.

1. In the **Wi-Fi** tab, you'll find information about the Wi-Fi connection, including the frequency band (GHz).

### Creating a 2.4 GHz Network with a Hotspot

If your network operates on the 5 GHz band, a quick solution is to create a 2.4 GHz network using the hotspot feature on an Android or iPhone device. iPhone hotspots typically prioritize the 2.4 GHz band by default. Android devices offer users the option to manually select their preferred band for hotspot connections.

![Andriod hotspot settings page](img/Andriod_hotspot_settings.png)

## 2. Unique SSID for Network

Avoid using generic names like "default" or "home" to prevent interference and confusion with neighboring networks.

## 3. Reset Network Credentials

> If the Wi-Fi connection is not stable or not working at all, you might need to reset the [network credentials](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/360016495559-Add-and-connect-a-device-to-Arduino-Cloud#:~:text=Click%20the%20Network,adding%20the%20device) for your Thing in Arduino Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the Wi-Fi connection is not working, you might need to reset the [network credentials](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/360016495559-Add-and-connect-a-device-to-Arduino-Cloud#:~:text=Click%20the%20Network,adding%20the%20device) for your Thing in Arduino Cloud.
```

Credentials are either valid or invalid. "Unstable" means working intermittently, which can never be caused by incorrect credentials.
